Welcome, guys and girls, to this lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to learn declarative versus scripted pipelines.
So I'm just going to jump straight into the Jenkins console to show you what area I'm talking about.
So under pipeline, you have the option to give a script.
So if you click this dropdown, you will see the script pipeline here.
So if you select that, you will see there is no pipeline top level block.
It starts with a node and then you have these stages.
All the other options create a declarative pipeline.
So let's see if I do.
Hello world.
You could see this pipeline.
BLOCK So all the declarative pipeline starts with this pipeline.
BLOCK So if I open GitHub plus Maven, the same thing.
So let's try to understand what is the difference between this declarative pipeline script and scripted
pipeline script.
All right.
So we saw the high level a difference in syntax as scripted starts with not particularly pipeline starts
with pipeline.
The scripted pipeline is the older way of writing pipeline.
Previously, you have to learn a groovy language to write this.
Jenkins Scripted Pipelines.
The declarative pipeline is the latest addition.
You don't really need to know groovy syntax.
The scripted pipeline is more free flowing and more powerful.
You can actually write groovy code.
Inside these stages.
We declare the pipeline.
It is more opinionated and streamlined syntax.
It kind of tells you that you have to use this syntax.
If you try to inject a certain groovy code, it fails for scripted pipeline.
If a middle stage fails, let's say the stage a test fails, you cannot really restart it.
You have to write some groovy code in this stage so that it can allow you to restart it.
This is one of the big advantage of declarative pipeline.
It is super easy to restart from a middle of the stage failure and we will see this in a lot of our
example.
If, let's say the stage test fails, you can restart the job and it will restart from this fail stage.
A scripted pipeline is super harder to learn because groovy is not really a very intuitive language
and it doesn't get used in any other front end or back end.
In modern applications, there is not much incentive for you to learn it, and there are less number
of examples available.
The declarative pipeline is easier to learn and there are plenty of examples online.
And a couple other points.
Jenkins Blue Ocean, the newest package for Jenkins.
You can actually write declare the pipeline from Drag Drop, a low code kind of approach.
Also, almost all modern kid projects use declarative pipeline.
Also throughout our whole course.
Declarative pipeline is what we are going to use.
Now, one thing there is a misconception that a scripted pipeline must be written in the UI.
So if I switch back to the Jenkins job and so the misconception is if you write something in the UI
here, then it's a scripted pipeline.
And then if you put a Jenkins file from ICM, then it is a declarative that's not true.
You can have Jenkins file for both declarative or scripted pipeline.
It's just going to grab the content of that Jenkins file.
Only thing that matters is the syntax.
So you can also write declarative pipeline in the UI.
You can see this pipeline block.
That's what makes it declarative.
All right, folks, short and sweet lecture.
I'll see you in the next lecture by.